Sustaining of General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers

Presented by President D. Todd Christofferson
Second Counselor in the First Presidency

Brothers and sisters, in addition to the sustaining of the new First Presidency and members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles in the solemn assembly that took place this morning, President Oaks has asked that I now present the other General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints for your sustaining vote.

We ask that you please express your support in the usual way. If there are those who oppose any of the proposals, we ask that you contact your stake president.

According to established policy followed for many years, General Authority Seventies are released and granted emeritus status in the year a General Authority Seventy turns 70. Therefore, the following General Authority Seventies will be released from their assignments and given emeritus status, effective on August 1, 2026: Elders Craig C. Christensen, Eduardo Gavarret, Brook P. Hales, William K. Jackson, Erich W. Kopischke, Peter F. Meurs, and S. Mark Palmer, who will also be released as a member of the Presidency of the Seventy.

Those who wish to express gratitude to these brethren and to their wives and families for their years of dedicated service throughout the Church may do so by the uplifted hand.

We note with gratitude the 75 Area Seventies who will complete their service and whose names can be found on the Church’s website.

Those who wish to join in expressing appreciation to these brethren and to their families for their years of selfless service may manifest it.

We extend, with sincere gratitude, releases to the Primary General Presidency, effective on August 1, 2026, as follows: Susan H. Porter as President, Amy A. Wright as First Counselor, and Tracy Y. Browning as Second Counselor.

All who wish to join in expressing gratitude to these sisters and their families for their devoted service may manifest it.

Elder Benjamin M. Z. Tai has been called to serve as a member of the Presidency of the Seventy, effective on August 1.

Those in favor, please manifest it.

Those opposed, if any, by the same sign.

It is proposed that we sustain the following as new General Authority Seventies: Elders Christian C. Chigbundu, Matthew J. Eyring, Hutch U. Fale, James O. Fantone, Kevin J. Hathaway, Thabo Lebethoa, Jeremiah J. Morgan, and Paul H. Sinclair.

All in favor, please manifest it.

Those opposed, by the same sign.

We note that 91 new Area Seventies were sustained during the general conference leadership meetings on Thursday, April 2, and then announced on the Church’s website. We invite you to sustain these brethren in their new assignments.

Those in favor, please manifest it.

Those opposed may indicate by the same sign.

It is proposed that we sustain the following as the new Primary General Presidency, to be effective on August 1, 2026: Rosemary K. Chibota as President, Nina M. Garfield as First Counselor, and Theresa A. Collins as Second Counselor.

Those in favor may manifest it.

Any opposed may so signify.

It is proposed that we sustain the other General Authorities, Area Seventies, and General Officers of the Church as presently constituted.

All in favor may do so by the uplifted hand.

Those opposed, if any.

We again thank you for your sustaining vote on behalf of the leadership of the Church.

The following Area Seventies were sustained during a leadership meeting held as part of general conference:

Demetrio P. Agudo III, Rafael Alcántara, J. Gerardo Álvarez, Paulo M. Araujo, Troy A. Bair, Brett V. Benson, Felix O. Bentayen Jr., Christopher B. Bingham, Peter Bushi, Nuno A. Campos, Jorge R. Cardozo, Lenin Cerón, Brandon J Child, Juan Pablo Cortez, Victor Cortez Padilla, Andrew E. Dadson, Alirio B. Díaz, Samuel E. Eghan, Brandon C. Ellison, J. Joel Fernandes, Nathan R. Fernley, Jerome G. Galotera, Matthew R. Hall, Paul E. Higueros, Rhett R Hintze, Hikombo Hitoto, Miguel A. Honores, Fredrick N. Igweh, M. Franck Ilunga, Marcus F. Johnson, Josue G. Jundos, Anani Kouegan, Orson S. Lemos, Kleber A. Litardo, R. Wade Litchfield, Sawman Machakaire, Hans A. Martineau, Osvaldo E. Martinez Carreño, Philip J. Mathemera, Patrick O. Mawongo, John L. Merrill, Cesar A. Morales, Andres D. Moreno, Jason T. Morris, Ngqabutho F. Moyo, Harri J. Myllylä, Scott M. Naatjes, Lincoln D. Nadauld, Nadmid B. Namgur, Thelmo P. Navarra Jr., Reid L. Neilson, Stephen F. Notarte, D. Dan Nuñez, Dennis K. Ocansey, Odgerel Ochirjav, Jimmy C. Okot, M. Shayne Olsen, Sylvain G. Onagnelin, Víctor Orozco, Sunday F. Oyedeji, Daniel W. Packard, Marcelo J. Paz, Joshua K. Perkes, Thịnh Phúc Phan, N. Benjamin Poóu, Wilfredo E. Rellora Jr., Jon P. Reyes, Gary M. Riding, Ryan A Robinson, Carlos J. Rodriguez, Luis D. Santana, Kurt F. Scherer, B. Brondon Shaheen, Nathan Y. Sharp, Luis H. Silva, Graham F. Smith, Craig R. Spangler, Christopher Stephenson, Michael J. Stone, Martin R. Tello Sotil, Christopher L. Thomas, Paul J. Thomas, Kevin C. Thompson, Paula S. Tonga, Jose J. Trovato, Manea Tuahu, Edgar D. Valdez, Juan F. Vásquez, Andres Villegas, Brian J. Willey, Ritch N Wood.

The following Area Seventies will be released on or before August 1, 2026:

Daniel P. Amato, Rodney A. Ames, Marcelo Andrezzo, Samuel Annan-Simons, Eduardo M. Argana, Lauriano P. Balilemwa, Erik Bernskov, Mark E. Bonham, K. Bruce Boucher, Jonathon W. Bunker, Jonathan G. Cannon, Juan P. Casco, Fernando R. Castro, Ranulfo Cervantes Soler, Thomas K. Checketts, Ross A. Chiles, Stephen K. Christensen, Benjamin Cinco, David C. Clark, Félix Conde, Jorge A. Contreras, Corbin E. Coombs, Moroni Costa, Nathan A. Craig, Leandro J. Curaba, Ernesto A. Deyro Jr., Hutch U. Fale, Tomás Familia, James O. Fantone, Claude R. Gamiette, John Gutty, Tommy D. Haws, Hal C Hunsaker, Yuichi Imai, B. Helaman Ixcot, Dong Hwan Jeong, Frederick M. Kamya, David S. Kinard, Julio E. Lee, Odair Lira, Enrique M. Loo, R. Darío Lorenzana, Hernán D. Lucero, Bartolome L. Madriaga, Douglas P. Maxfield, Enrique Mayorga, Héctor Méndez, Steven C. Merrell, Quinn S. Millington, Siegfried A. Naumann, Ricardo J. Nieves, Lorenzo Norambuena, Enefiok Ntem, Charles O. Oide, Juan L. Orquera, Roberto C. Pacheco, Damon Page, Franck A. Poznanski, T. Michael Price, Alexandre Ret, Frédéric T. Riemer, Russell A. Robinson, Leonardo S. Rojas, Douglas A. Rozsa, Tonga J. Sai, Lee M. Shumway, Vance K. Smith, Martiniano S. Soquila Jr., Victor H. Suazo, Raul Tapia, Carlos Torres, Iotua B. Tune, Bruno E. Vásquez, M. Travis Wolsey, Richard G. Youngblood.
