Remember, Remember

By Elder Chi Hong (Sam) Wong
Of the Seventy

Every promise of redemption, every hope of resurrection, and every assurance of eternal life flows through Jesus Christ.

Easter Sunday is the ultimate celebration of Jesus Christ’s redeeming mission, especially His Resurrection. The Easter season invites disciples of Jesus Christ not only to rejoice but to remember our Savior.

What would God want us to remember? How would He let us know? Where would we find His reminders? About 10 years ago, as I pondered these questions, a clear thought came to my mind: He would put His reminders in the Book of Mormon. He would remind us to “remember, remember,” just like our parents would. There are five “remember, remember” verses in the Book of Mormon.

“And moreover, I would desire that ye should consider on the blessed and happy state of those that keep the commandments of God. For behold, they are blessed in all things, both temporal and spiritual; and if they hold out faithful to the end they are received into heaven, that thereby they may dwell with God in a state of never-ending happiness. O remember, remember that these things are true; for the Lord God hath spoken it.”

Keeping God’s commandments is a blessing, both temporal and spiritual. If we can endure to the end, we will dwell with Him in a state of never-ending happiness. Isn’t that amazingly wonderful! However, have you ever thought about what will happen if we do not keep His commandments?

“O remember, remember, my son Helaman, how strict are the commandments of God. And he said: If ye will keep my commandments ye shall prosper in the land—but if ye keep not his commandments ye shall be cut off from his presence.”

God reminds us that His commandments are firm and that obedience to them brings promised blessings.

President Dallin H. Oaks shared how the commandments of God guide and steady our lives. He said: “Our experiences in mortality are like the little boy and his father flying a kite on a windy day. As the kite rose higher, the winds caused it to tug on the connecting string in the little boy’s hand. Inexperienced with the force of mortal winds, he proposed to cut the string so the kite could rise higher. His wise father counseled no, explaining that the string is what holds the kite in place against mortal winds. If we lose our hold on the string, the kite will not rise higher. It will be carried about by these winds and inevitably crash to the earth.”

We need to return to our Heavenly Father through coming unto Jesus Christ. That was the plan that we agreed to and caused us to “[shout] for joy” (Job 38:7).

“O remember, remember, my sons, the words which king Benjamin spake unto his people; yea, remember that there is no other way nor means whereby man can be saved, only through the atoning blood of Jesus Christ, who shall come; yea, remember that he cometh to redeem the world.”

Jesus Christ stands at the very heart of God’s plan of salvation and exaltation. Every promise of redemption, every hope of resurrection, and every assurance of eternal life flows through Him. Without Jesus Christ, there is no salvation, no victory over sin and death, and no path back to our Heavenly Father. He is the very foundation of the whole plan of salvation and exaltation.

“And now, my sons, remember, remember that it is upon the rock of our Redeemer, who is Christ, the Son of God, that ye must build your foundation; that when the devil shall send forth his mighty winds, yea, his shafts in the whirlwind, yea, when all his hail and his mighty storm shall beat upon you, it shall have no power over you to drag you down to the gulf of misery and endless wo, because of the rock upon which ye are built, which is a sure foundation, a foundation whereon if men build they cannot fall.”

Elder David A. Bednar taught how we can secure that foundation in our lives: “The sacred covenants and ordinances of the Savior’s restored gospel can be compared to the anchor pins and steel rods used to connect a building to bedrock. Every time we faithfully receive, review, remember, and renew sacred covenants, our spiritual anchors are secured ever more firmly and steadfastly to the ‘rock’ of Jesus Christ.”

“And now remember, remember, my brethren, that whosoever perisheth, perisheth unto himself; and whosoever doeth iniquity, doeth it unto himself; for behold, ye are free; ye are permitted to act for yourselves; for behold, God hath given unto you a knowledge and he hath made you free.”

The Book of Mormon was written for our day and for our future. As we study its pages, we come to know the truth. As we understand its teachings, they begin to shape our hearts. As we internalize its messages and immerse ourselves in its words, we will be guided to discern right from wrong and empowered to use our God-given agency wisely.

Do you still remember the five sets of “remember, remember” verses in the Book of Mormon?

They are:

We can dwell with God in a state of never-ending happiness if we keep His commandments.

We will be cut off from God’s presence if we do not keep His commandments.

We can be saved only through the atoning blood of Jesus Christ.

We will not fall if we build our foundation upon Jesus Christ.

We were given knowledge and agency to choose and act wisely.

Let us remember, remember our Savior, especially in this Easter season. He is resurrected. He wants us to come unto Him. Let us pray unitedly that we will keep His commandments, use our moral agency wisely every day, and prepare for His glorious return in His resurrected body. In the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
