Prayers for Peace

By President Henry B. Eyring
First Counselor in the First Presidency

As we pray continually, no matter the circumstances of life, the Lord will offer us His peace and abiding support.

My dear brothers and sisters, I am grateful to be with you at this time when we can remember again the Savior’s comfort to His Apostles, as He knew that He would have to leave them alone, without Him to lead, protect, and succor them in their perils.

It was at that Last Supper that He gave those faithful disciples a promise, which continues to comfort and encourage His faithful disciples today in whatever difficulties we face in our own lives. He said: “Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.”

The world today seems to be in commotion. There are wars and rumors of wars. The economies of whole continents seem to be faltering. Prophesied wickedness seems to be accelerating as the Savior’s return draws nearer.

Yet despite turmoil and difficulty, faithful Latter-day Saints in hardship across the world have flooded heaven with prayers. In public and in private, they are petitioning the Lord for help, for comfort, for direction, and for personal peace for those they love.

You may have seen in your congregations and in your homes that prayers have not only been more numerous but more heartfelt.

Turning to Heavenly Father in fervent prayer when the world seems chaotic is as old as mankind. In times of fear, tragedy, danger, trouble, or illness, people often turn to God in prayer. His Beloved Son, Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray, lives, knows us, watches over us, and cares for us. You may remember the consoling words of King David from the book of Psalms:

“The Lord also will be a refuge for the oppressed, a refuge in times of trouble.

“And they that know thy name will put their trust in thee: for thou, Lord, hast not forsaken them that seek thee.”

In moments of pain, loneliness, or confusion, we know that our Heavenly Father and His Beloved Son are aware of our circumstances and that They yearn to bless us. The Savior’s words are clear:

“And I say unto you, Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.

“For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened.”

Opening the windows of heaven through fervent prayer does not require the use of many words or flowery language. Rather, the diligence in prayer which Heavenly Father requires of us is to “pour out [our] souls” in private places and have our hearts “drawn out in prayer unto him continually.”

During His Sermon on the Mount, the Savior taught:

“When thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is in secret; and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly.

“But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen do: for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking.

“Be not ye therefore like unto them: for your Father knoweth what things ye have need of, before ye ask him.”

The Lord has also provided us touching evidence of the power of nonverbal prayers offered within our hearts. In the Book of Mormon, we read of the people of Alma the Elder, who would have been destroyed had they prayed openly:

“And Alma and his people did not raise their voices to the Lord their God, but did pour out their hearts to him; and he did know the thoughts of their hearts.

“And it came to pass that the voice of the Lord came to them in their afflictions, saying: Lift up your heads and be of good comfort, for I … will also ease the burdens which are put upon your shoulders, that even you cannot feel them upon your backs, even while you are in bondage. …

“And now it came to pass that the burdens which were laid upon Alma and his brethren were made light; yea, the Lord did strengthen them that they could bear up their burdens with ease, and they did submit cheerfully and with patience to all the will of the Lord.”

I testify that the Lord hears and answers the prayers of our hearts, just as He did for Alma and his people. We can follow His commandment to “pray always” by having a continual prayer in our hearts. As prophets have taught many times in the past, you may not feel like praying or you may not know what to say, but God hears the secret prayers of your heart. The feelings of your heart and the love for our Heavenly Father and for His Beloved Son can be so constant that your prayers will ascend always.

As we pray continually, no matter the circumstances of life, the Lord will offer us His peace and abiding support. I am reminded of the example of the sons of Mosiah, who had success in preaching the gospel and were made spiritually strong because they prayed constantly. We read in the book of Alma, “They had given themselves to much prayer, and fasting; therefore they had the spirit of prophecy, and the spirit of revelation.”

It is significant that their spiritual strength came from continued prayer rather than waiting to pray until a moment of crisis when they desperately needed divine help. Consistent prayer during joyous times and also during seasons of distress and grief will surely be rewarded according to His will and perfect timing.

I know that God the Father lives. He loves us. He hears our prayers, and many times He will answer with feelings of peace. Again from the Book of Mormon: “And now, may the peace of God rest upon you, and upon your houses and lands, and upon your flocks and herds, and all that you possess, your women and your children, according to your faith and good works, from this time forth and forever. And thus I have spoken.”

Brothers and sisters, I bear my testimony that the Savior’s promise is true and that a humble prayer for peace in your heart will be honored. I felt it at the funeral of my wife of 61 years. I was surprised at the feeling of peace and almost joy. The people at the funeral must have wondered why I was smiling. It was because the Lord had answered my prayer for peace with an assurance from the Holy Ghost, which allowed me to envision the happy reunion ahead with her. The Lord gave me the peace and hope that He had promised His disciples.

He said: “Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled.”

I testify that I know that Jesus Christ lives. He loves us and blesses us. He continues to offer us peace in our lives through sincere and fervent prayer. Of these things I humbly testify in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.
