Follow the Prophet; He Knows the Way

By Elder Michael John U. Teh
Of the Seventy

When we follow the teachings and examples of prophets, seers, and revelators, we are following our Savior, Jesus Christ.

To the rich young man, Jesus said, “Sell all that thou hast, and distribute unto the poor⁠, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, follow me⁠.” The young man did not know that the path he was asked to tread would lead him to “treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt.”

I am grateful for teachings received over the years that have helped me better follow the Savior. For my purpose today, I simply would like to focus on one. As the Primary song goes, “Follow the prophet; he knows the way.”

In October 2024, President Dallin H. Oaks gave the following counsel: “Following Christ is not a casual or occasional practice. It is a continuous commitment and way of life that should guide us at all times and in all places. His teachings and His example define the path for every disciple of Jesus Christ. And all are invited to this path.”

My parents were born in the Philippines, but both of them had Chinese ancestry. Like almost everyone else in the Philippines, they embraced the predominant faith of my native country. So, our family enjoyed a healthy mix of different family, ethnic, and religious practices and traditions that influenced our daily lives.

When my parents joined the Church, little did they know that they were embracing yet another set of values and traditions—even the gospel culture, based on the plan of salvation, God’s commandments, and the words of living prophets. Over time, as our family strived to fully embrace the gospel, my parents discovered that some of our well-loved traditions were not consistent with gospel culture. It became apparent to them that they needed to make a choice.

And so began the difficult undertaking of weeding our family of traditions and cultural practices that were contrary to gospel culture. You could just imagine the immense pressure they received from family and friends to hold on to certain traditions even though they were contrary to the gospel.

I am so grateful that my parents exercised faith and chose to keep their covenants. It was a long and difficult process. Even when I left to live on my own, they were still working on it. Although our family was still not perfect, we had come a long way. This experience taught me that embracing gospel culture simply meant keeping our covenants.

President Oaks taught:

“The gospel of Jesus Christ challenges us to change. ‘Repent’ is its most frequent message, and repenting means giving up all of our practices﻿—personal, family, ethnic, and national﻿—that are contrary to the commandments of God. The purpose of the gospel is to transform common creatures into celestial citizens, and that requires change. …

“The traditions or culture or way of life of a people inevitably include some practices that must be changed by those who wish to qualify for God’s choicest blessings.”

A few weeks ago a stake president in Japan felt that we should visit a man diagnosed with cancer. Despite his going through treatment, the cancer continued to spread. In these situations, I struggle to find the words to say. So, for days I pleaded for the Lord’s help. I pictured the man to be downtrodden and devastated. I anticipated that he would ask why the Lord gave him this trial. I imagined that he would be hopeless and perhaps even a little angry. The day of the visit arrived, and I was still at a loss. When we finally met, I was completely astonished. What stood before me was not at all the man I had imagined. His countenance was bright and happy. There was no bitterness, and he never asked why.

Just recently, I had very similar experiences with members living in Korea. My intention was to minister to others. However, at the end of my visits, it felt like I was the one being ministered to.

Jesus Christ strengthened each of these individuals to endure their trials. As President Oaks has taught: “Our Savior experienced and suffered the fulness of all mortal challenges. … He therefore knows our struggles, our heartaches, our temptations, and our suffering, for He willingly experienced them all as an essential part of His Atonement. And because of this, His Atonement empowers Him to succor us﻿—to give us the strength to bear it all.”

Two years ago we were asked to live in Hong Kong, known for its tall buildings. Our apartment building was dwarfed by much taller buildings around it. So, I was prepared to live in the shadows. Imagine my delight to wake up and see the rays of the morning sun shining through our windows. This simple experience filled my soul with immense joy and gratitude.

When I finally got my bearings, I was so confused. Our windows were not facing east. How did we ever get the morning sun? Upon further investigation, I learned that the sun’s rays were being reflected into our apartment by the tall building in front of us. I was reminded that when we strive to follow the Savior, He will use us to bless others. Through our example and service to others, they will feel the Savior’s love for them.

From President Oaks: “During his ministry Jesus taught, ‘Behold I am the light; I have set an example for you.’ Later, he told his Apostles, ‘Hold up your light that it may shine unto the world,’ adding, ‘Behold, I am the light which ye shall hold up﻿—that which ye have seen me do.’”

It is interesting to me that some people would think that God’s prophets live in the past and are not attuned to the times. Everything I know of prophets is the opposite. They actually see into the future as watchmen on a tower.

As we learn in the book of Mosiah, “A seer can know of things which are past, and also of things which are to come, and by them shall all things be revealed, or, rather, shall secret things be made manifest, and hidden things shall come to light, and things which are not known shall be made known by them, and also things shall be made known by them which otherwise could not be known.”

I testify that we are led today by a living prophet, President Dallin H. Oaks. He, along with the counselors in the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, are indeed prophets, seers, and revelators. I am grateful to have participated in the solemn assembly this morning. My dear brothers and sisters, especially you, my dear young friends, when we follow their teachings and examples, we are following our Savior, Jesus Christ. I so testify in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.
