Tithing—Putting God First

By Elder Jorge T. Becerra
Of the Seventy

I am certain that the payment of tithes and offerings will enhance our spiritual capacity as we put God first.

The prophet Alma asked several penetrating questions to help the Church members in Zarahemla have “a mighty change” of heart as disciples of Jesus Christ (Alma 5:12). Shortly thereafter, he taught the people of Gideon. Something he taught caught my attention as I read, “I have come having great hopes … that ye had humbled yourselves before God, and that … ye were not in the awful dilemma that our brethren were in at Zarahemla” (Alma 7:3; emphasis added).

Later in the same sermon, he repeated, “I had much desire that ye were not in the state of dilemma like your brethren” (Alma 7:18; emphasis added). What was this awful dilemma? The footnote in verse 18 leads us to a possible answer. The Apostle James taught us what this dilemma could be: “A double minded man is unstable in all his ways” (James 1:8).

A double-minded person is one who is wavering, indecisive, or conflicted, someone who lacks commitment to a single purpose or belief. One way to overcome double-mindedness is to learn to put God first in our lives. Jesus Christ taught, “Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness” (Matthew 6:33; emphasis added).

From the beginning of time, God has taught His children to put Him first in their lives. For example, the Lord gave Adam and Eve “commandments, that they should worship the Lord their God, and should offer the firstlings of their flocks, for an offering unto the Lord. And Adam was obedient unto the commandments of the Lord.

“And after many days an angel of the Lord appeared unto Adam, saying: Why dost thou offer sacrifices unto the Lord? And Adam said unto him: I know not, save the Lord commanded me.

“And then the angel spake, saying: This thing is a similitude of the sacrifice of the Only Begotten of the Father, which is full of grace and truth” (Moses 5:5–7; emphasis added).

Please notice that the Lord commanded Adam and Eve to offer the firstlings of their flocks. In other words, He commanded them to put God first to avoid the spiritual dilemma of double-mindedness.

I recall a powerful experience I had many years ago that taught me how to put God first in my life. As a young married father, I was called to serve in a branch presidency. Elder Clinton L. Cutler of the Seventy came to speak to our branch. After the meeting, I had an opportunity to talk with him.

Sensing that I had something on my mind, he asked, “Is there something bothering you?”

“Yes,” I replied, “I am having financial difficulties in my business. I have fallen behind in my payment of tithes and offerings.”

He then asked, “Do you have anything of value?”

I don’t recall what else he said. I pondered his question for many days. The only thing I had of value was a car that I needed in my efforts to grow my business. However, I concluded that I should at least make an effort to sell my car, so I cleaned and polished it and placed an ad to sell it.

I want to be clear that Elder Cutler did not ask me to sell my car. This came to me after pondering and desiring to put God first.

A few days later, a man came to the house to see the car. He seemed interested; he drove it and came back to discuss the details. He gave me his business card, and I realized he represented a car dealership. I was nervous about what would surely happen next—the haggling back and forth over the price.

He asked me, “How much do you want for the car?”

I told him I needed a precise amount. I had calculated what I needed to pay off the loan on the car and pay my tithing.

He then said very calmly, “OK, I will come back in a few days with a check.”

He thanked me and left. I could not believe it. No arguing, no haggling, no negotiating.

A few days later, he came back with a check for the amount I had requested. I was surprised and amazed as he drove off with the car. I deposited the check and paid my tithing.

As I contemplated what had occurred, I realized that I did not have a car to continue with my business. While I was thinking about what to do, a friend called me and said, “Jorge, you like my car, don’t you?” At that point I would have liked any car! He reminded me that his wife was having twins and that he needed to buy a larger vehicle and wondered if I would be willing to take over his car payments. It was a miracle!

As I reflect upon my experience, I wonder what gave me the confidence to sell my car and pay my tithing. I recall one home evening when my mother bore powerful testimony of the law of tithing. My parents immigrated to the United States through a job offer that allowed us to receive legal residency. However, we experienced financial setbacks, as many immigrants do as they become acclimated to a new country and economy.

With a gaze of her certain witness, she said, “All we need to see is the very hand of Jehovah Himself to have any greater assurance that He is blessing us by our payment of tithing.”

President Gordon B. Hinckley taught: “I know that the people are in difficult circumstances. I know that many of them are unemployed. I know that many of them work for very meager wages. I know that they live in simple and inadequate little houses, the only thing they can afford. I believe they will not walk out of poverty unless they pay their tithing. … Now is the season in which to establish strength in the gospel, and that involves the payment of tithing. … It is obedience to the commandment of the Lord that really matters” (General Authority training meeting, Oct. 2, 2001).

I know this statement applies to our temporal lives but also to our spiritual lives. I am certain that the payment of tithes and offerings will enhance our spiritual capacity as we put God first and offer our “firstlings of [the] flock” (Moses 5:5).

I witness that a spiritual power and direction, heretofore unknown, will come into our lives as we keep the law of obedience and sacrifice. Evidence of this truth is found in the simple statement of the Lord after Adam had offered sacrifice: “And in that day the Holy Ghost fell upon Adam” (Moses 5:9).

Elder David A. Bednar observed: “The imagery of the ‘windows’ of heaven used by Malachi is most instructive [see Malachi 3:10]. Windows allow natural light to enter into a building. In like manner, spiritual illumination and perspective are poured out through the windows of heaven and into our lives as we honor the law of tithing” (“The Windows of Heaven,” Liahona, Nov. 2013, 18).

I witness that Jesus Christ is the perfect example of how to put God first in our lives. I witness that He laid down His life as a symbol of complete submission to His Father’s will. He is the Christ, the Redeemer and Savior of us all. Dallin H. Oaks is His prophet. I bear solemn witness that He lives, in the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
