Encounter at the Empty Tomb

By President Dieter F. Uchtdorf
Acting President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles

We must encounter the empty tomb, experience the reality of what it means, and, in turn, share that witness with others.

Nearly 2,000 years ago, a small group of women rose while it was still dark and made their way toward the tomb where the body of their beloved Lord, Jesus Christ, had been laid to rest.

I have tried to imagine the depth of their grief.

I can’t.

I have tried to imagine their heartache, helplessness, and hopelessness.

I can’t.

Perhaps the question they all asked was “How could this happen?”

How could the man who had cast out demons, healed the crippled, cured the sick, walked on water, conversed with angels, taught the blessed hope and infinite glory of the gospel, fed multitudes, and raised the dead—how could He Himself have died?

Today we understand better why the Savior had to die.

We know His “dying … brought new birth through resurrection’s miracle.” But did His disciples know this at the time? Or did they wonder if God had entirely abandoned them?

Despite the heaviness of their hearts and the unanswered questions in their minds, Mary and her companions made their way to the tomb.

They didn’t come expecting a miracle.

They didn’t come anticipating their questions would be answered.

They certainly didn’t come because they had a complete understanding of what was happening.

They came because of their immeasurable love and reverence for Jesus Christ. They came desiring to provide a loving act of service as a measure of their devotion and love for the man they honored and followed as the promised Messiah.

They came because they knew when the world is dark, the best place to go is toward “the light [that] shines in … darkness.”

What Mary and those with her discovered on that Sunday morning changed the world forever. “They found the stone rolled away from the tomb, but when they went in they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. While they were perplexed about this, behold, two men stood by them in dazzling apparel … [and] said to them, ‘Why do you seek the living among the dead? He is not here, but has risen.’”

This encounter at the empty tomb changed them forever.

It changed the world.

Many might picture Jesus as a carpenter from Nazareth or a traveling preacher from Galilee. They might note the significant influence He had on the world’s religious history. But the bold message of the empty tomb is that Jesus Christ is not merely a historical figure.

We do not seek Him among the dead. He is risen!

We understand He is not confined to the pages of a book any more than He was confined to that grave of stone. The scriptures teach us not only who Jesus was but who He is.

Because of what happened on that Sunday morning, we can speak of Jesus Christ in the present tense.

He lives!

Today.

At this moment.

He lives and is an active, ongoing influence in His Church and in the personal lives of those who follow Him. He guides, comforts, listens, calms our fears, and wipes away our tears.

The message of the risen Christ is that, with His strength, all obstacles can be overcome. Because Jesus Christ conquered death, surely He can conquer any danger, confusion, or doubt we face.

Heavenly messengers at the empty tomb gave Mary and her companions two invitations.

First, “Come, [and] see the place where the Lord lay.”

Second, “Go quickly and tell His disciples that He is risen from the dead.”

In time, the Savior echoed a similar invitation to all: “Go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature.”

Those early believers did just that. And soon, the good news of the Resurrection of Jesus Christ spread throughout “all nations.” That glorious work continues today as we proclaim His way in word and deed throughout more than 150 countries.

But it’s worth remembering how it started—early on that Sunday morning with Mary and a small group of friends who, despite grief, fear, and unanswered questions, encountered the empty tomb and learned for themselves the glorious truth of His Resurrection. It began on that Easter morning when these few women became the world’s first witnesses of the single greatest event in the history of this world.

We must all do the same.

We must encounter the empty tomb, experience the reality of what it means, and, in turn, share that witness with others.

Even though centuries separate us from that holy day, we are among those who Jesus referred to when He said, “Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed.”

The Savior has entrusted each of us personally with sacred spiritual experiences and knowledge. Because of those experiences, we can see for ourselves the meaning of the empty tomb: that Jesus Christ lives and is actively blessing all who seek Him.

We too can rise to Jesus’s challenge and spread the glorious news of the empty tomb.

We can serve full-time missions, which will bring lifelong blessings not only now but for generations to come.

We can feel a renewed determination and embrace the challenge of becoming lifelong missionaries and disciples of Christ through courageous and humble acts of discipleship in our daily lives.

We can walk in “the way” of Christ and “serve God with all diligence day and night.”

Living the message of the risen Christ testifies of our devotion and love for our Savior. It may well be that our consistent, courageous, and humble acts of service and love for God and His children will speak far more eloquently and powerfully than we ever could through words alone.

Some might hesitate to commit fully because of unresolved questions relating to life circumstances, the gospel, or the Church.

But, like Mary and those with her that morning, even when things seem dark, we step forward in faith, with courage and humility, and walk toward the Savior’s light. As we do so, eventually the dawn of understanding will surely reward our faith.

Like the warmth and light of the morning sun, we will feel the love and healing of the Son of God.

Darkness will give way to eternal light.

My dear brothers and sisters, each morning let the daily rising sun remind us that Jesus Christ is the light that leads us through this life, through any valley of sorrow, over beautiful mountains of joy, and across any ocean of uncertainty or temptation, safely back to our loving and merciful Father in Heaven.

Brothers and sisters, as we desire to encounter Christ, we must eventually make our way to the empty tomb.

We must come to know for ourselves the blessed words “Be not afraid, for Jesus, who was crucified, is not here. He is risen!”

Those words will change us. They will inspire us to take upon ourselves the name of Christ. And from that moment on, the Light of Christ will begin to bloom within us. It will, in time, bring about a mighty change in our hearts and bless us with a disposition to do good continually. Jesus Christ and His restored gospel are our strength. Jesus Christ is our guide for making choices and will bring joy and happiness in this life and extend into the eternities.

No, we were not with Mary on that blessed Easter morning. We did not see what she and the other women saw. But we can ask ourselves: What have we seen, felt, or experienced?

Shall we not, therefore, become witnesses of Jesus Christ? Shall we not share our love for Him with others?

My dear friends, on this holy Easter morning, I offer my witness: He is risen.

I have stood at the entrance to the empty tomb and seen with spiritual eyes the eternal truth that Jesus Christ is not found among the dead but among the living.

He lives!

That testimony has made all the difference in my life.

That encounter at the tomb will do the same for all who earnestly seek Him. It will make a difference to you.

My dear friends, let us walk in His way as joyful and constant disciples of our beloved Savior, the Risen One, is my prayer and my blessing in the holy name of Jesus Christ, amen.
