I Glory in My Jesus

By Elder Aaron T. Hall
Of the Seventy

Nephi and Ammon inspire me to deepen my relationship with Jesus Christ and to rejoice in the many ways we can glory in Him.

Brothers and sisters, happy Easter! He is risen!

As the Book of Mormon prophet Nephi concludes his teaching, he bears this powerful witness: “I glory in plainness; I glory in truth; I glory in my Jesus, for he hath redeemed my soul from hell.”

That short phrase, “I glory in my Jesus,” beautifully captures Nephi’s loving relationship with the Son of God, the Messiah, the Redeemer. In the books of 1 and 2 Nephi, there are over 60 different names for Jesus Christ. Each name reveals something of His majesty, His character, and His mission as the Savior of the world. Yet in this expression of love, Nephi refers to Him in a familiar and endearing way: “my Jesus.”

To Nephi, Jesus Christ was not someone distant or merely known by name. No, to Nephi, the name of Jesus was his salvation.

As Nephi experienced trials and the joy of deliverance, the name of Jesus Christ became even more personal to him.

Nephi came to know that “there is none other way nor name given under heaven whereby man can be saved in the kingdom of God.” The name of Jesus Christ was Nephi’s redemption, and he gloried in it.

Reflecting on his afflictions, temptations, and weakness, Nephi shares why he glories in Jesus Christ. He writes:

“My God hath been my support.”

“He hath led me through mine afflictions.”

“He hath preserved me.”

“He hath filled me with his love.”

We then read Nephi’s firm declaration: “Lord, I have trusted in thee, and I will trust in thee forever.”

In every circumstance—the bitter and the sweet—Nephi trusted in the One “who is mighty to save.”

Nephi was not alone in his desire to glory in the Lord. The mighty Book of Mormon missionary Ammon, who had once walked a path of rebellion and sin, also experienced the joy of the redemptive power of Jesus Christ.

Reflecting on the Lord’s mercy, he joyfully declared: “Therefore, let us glory, yea, we will glory in the Lord; yea, we will rejoice, for our joy is full; yea, we will praise our God forever. Behold, who can glory too much in the Lord? Yea, who can say too much of his great power, and of his mercy, and of his long-suffering towards the children of men? Behold, I say unto you, I cannot say the smallest part which I feel.”

I too can scarcely express the smallest part of that which I feel for my Jesus: our Savior, our King of kings, and our Prince of Peace.

Nephi’s and Ammon’s rejoicing fills my soul with gratitude. They inspire me to deepen my relationship with Jesus Christ and to rejoice in the many ways we can glory in Him.

Today I glory in our Redeemer. His arms of mercy are extended toward us. He sends an invitation to all, saying, “Repent, and I will receive you.” We are engraved upon the palms of His hands. I rejoice in the gift of repentance and the promise of forgiveness.

I glory in our Good Shepherd. He calls to us, gathers us, rescues us, and fills us with His love. I rejoice that we are His sheep and that He relentlessly works to bring us safely home.

I glory in our Healer. He can heal all who feel the sting of death, loneliness, physical and emotional pain, the burden of sin, and every broken heart. He has perfect empathy. He weeps with us, and He invites us to be still. I rejoice that the Son of God heals us one by one and encircles us in the arms of His love.

I glory in our Advocate. He lovingly pleads our cause before the Father, saying, “Father, spare these my brethren that believe on my name, that they may come unto me and have everlasting life.” I rejoice that Jesus Christ’s atoning sacrifice satisfied the demands of justice and that He has claimed the rights of mercy for us all.

I glory in our Lawgiver. His commandments guide and protect us. His covenants bind us to Him—so He can “transform, save, and exalt” all who choose Him. I rejoice that He stands at the head of His restored, true, and living Church and that His laws help us experience heaven on earth.

I glory in our Deliverer. He has overcome the monsters of physical and spiritual death. No challenge in mortality lies beyond His matchless power. I rejoice that He can deliver us from pains, afflictions, and temptations of every kind.

Brothers and sisters, what names of Jesus Christ help you glory in Him? Perhaps Master, Counselor, or Friend?

When life feels infuriatingly unfair and finding the strength to glory in the Lord seems difficult, reflect on the meaning of His divine names and let Him restore peace to your soul.

With perfect understanding of our mortal experience, Jesus Christ lovingly extends this promise: “Draw near unto me and I will draw near unto you; seek me diligently and ye shall find me.” To help us draw near to Him, He invites us to learn of Him, listen to His words, and walk with Him. To help us find Him, He invites us into a covenant relationship where we can receive direct access to His power and “an extra measure of [His] love and mercy.”

In moments of joy and in our trials, let us be faithful, obey His commandments, honor our covenants, and patiently wait on the Lord.

Our beloved prophet, President Dallin H. Oaks, beautifully testified why we can all glory in Jesus Christ. He taught: “As part of the Father’s plan, the Resurrection of Jesus Christ overcame death to assure each of us immortality. Jesus Christ’s atoning sacrifice gives each of us the opportunity to repent of our sins and return clean to our heavenly home. … And our Savior willingly experienced all mortal pains and infirmities that He would know how to strengthen us in our afflictions. Jesus Christ did all of this because He loves all of the children of God.”

Brothers and sisters, “Who can glory too much in the Lord?”! I joyfully testify that God is our loving Heavenly Father and that Jesus is the resurrected and living Christ. On this Easter Sunday and always, I invite us to glory in Jesus Christ. He is my Jesus and yours. In the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.
